feat: dev doc command (#107)
stjude-rust-labs/sprocket: sprocket-doc.md

Reviewer: I didn't see any details about the tags at the top of some of these workflows like how allow nested inputs is rendered. Just pointing that out in case you want to add details on what all is pulled out at the top.

Reviewer 2: A couple top-level thoughts on this document, which should be taken with a grain of salt as they're ultimately subjective, and might not actually be relevant depending on what this document aims to achieve.

- The content alternates between how-to/guide/tutorial recommendations and reference material. Both certainly have a place, but the purposes of both are better served when they are presented separately with cross-references. On the whole, this feels more like a guide, so most of my specific comments below assume a commitment to that direction.
- We haven't adopted a style guide for docs on this project (yet?), but I recommend checking out the pages from the Google developer documentation style guide on [tone](https://developers.google.com/style/tone), [tense](https://developers.google.com/style/tense), and [voice](https://developers.google.com/style/voice).

Author: I think you're right that the current draft tries to walk the line between a how-to guide and a reference document, and we'd be better served splitting that into two separate documents (both of which should exist).

More immediately we need a how-to guide with the target audience of beta testers (who are volunteering to test drive experimental code, so are likely a more technical audience than our general user base), so going to incorporate your feedback from that angle.

I should write a proper reference document for this feature as there are a lot of tiny details about this implementation that need to be documented in a more comprehensive way than scattered throughout the Rust code. Some of this content could be reworked into that document.

## General structure

The generated documentation directory (named `docs` by default) is completely self contained and can be moved, zipped, and shared without any of the raw WDL files it documents. Please let us know if you run into any issues while sharing your documentation!

The `docs` directory will always contain a `style.css` file, an `index.js` file, an `index.html` file, and an `assets/` directory filled with SVG icons and logos. The rest of the contents are dynamically created based on the structure of the WDL workspace being documented. Each WDL file found in the workspace will be represented as a directory within `docs`. The relative path from the root of the workspace to each WDL file is copied in the `docs` directory to keep your documentation organized.

The directory for each WDL file will have an `index.html` file and one HTML file per struct, task, or workflow defined in the WDL.

> ## Custom themes

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure we need this. I think it gets left undocumented. Maybe a short blurb along the lines of "We provide a single styling that should be widely useful. If you want to customize the styling, please let us know.".

While it is technically possible to supply your own custom CSS styling, this capability is currently undocumented. We recommend you stick with the default styling at this point in time, but do let us know what kinds of customization you would like to see in future releases! 

## Per WDL file `index.html`

At a minimum, the `index.html` associated with each WDL file will have a table of contents with links to each struct, task, or workflow documentation page in that directory. If the WDL file has a "preamble", that will be rendered as Markdown text above the table of contents. TODO - define preamble

## v1.0 and v1.1 structs

The WDL specification does not offer a way to document structs prior to WDL v1.2, so the pages for them are rather limited. The pages for these structs will have a copy of the raw WDL definition.

## v1.2 structs

TODO not yet implemented

## Parameters (inputs and outputs)

Each input and output to a workflow or task should be documented, but there is some flexibility in the specifics.

### Inputs

> Each entry in the `input` section of a task or workflow is expected to have a corresponding entry in the `parameter_meta` section. To get the most out of `sprocket doc`, it's recommended that each input entry be an object. That object should have at least a `description` key. There is special handling for the following sub-keys:

Reviewer 3: Probably should note that other keys are ignored.

- `group`: all inputs sharing the same `String` value will be rendered together in a dedicated table
    - required inputs are _always_ rendered under the "Required Inputs" table and thus should _not_ have a `group` key (it will be ignored if present)
    - The `Common` group of inputs will always come after the required inputs
    - Inputs without a `group` will be rendered under "Other Inputs" which will be the last input table
    - The `Resource` group of inputs will immediately precede the "Other Inputs" table

>     - All other groups will render alphabetically between tables which get special treatment (`Common`, `Resource` and `Other Inputs`)

Reviewer 3: "Between"? How does that work since these four aren't in alphabetical order?

- `help`: will render at the top of the "Additional Meta" cell of the table

If an input has a `String` value for its parameter meta entry instead of a meta object, that string value will be treated as if it were the `description` key of a meta object.

### Outputs

Outputs should be documented in one of two places: either in the task/workflow `meta` section under an `outputs` key or at the root of the `parameter_meta` section.

> Similar to inputs, each output should either be documented with an object which has a `description` key with a `String` value, or a `String` value directly. 

Reviewer 3: We should probably note what happens if a WDL output has an object with keys. I'm assuming other keys are ignored.

## Meta entries with special handling

Every struct, task, and workflow `meta` section should have a `description` key with a `String` value. This description string can have Markdown formatting. The `description` string should be less than 140 characters or it will be clipped in some contexts.

> The `help` key should only have a `String` value, but can be of any length. It's best practice to keep `description`s short, and put any additional text needed under the `help` key. Help strings can also be styled with Markdown!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `help` key should only have a `String` value, but can be of any length. It's best practice to keep `description` short, and put any additional text needed under the `help` key. Help strings can also be styled with Markdown!
```

The directory for each WDL file will have an `index.html` file and one HTML file per struct, task, or workflow defined in the WDL.

## Custom themes

While it is technically possible to supply your own custom CSS styling, this capability is currently undocumented. We recommend you stick with the default styling at this point in time, but do let us know what kinds of customization you would like to see in future releases! 

## Per WDL file `index.html`

At a minimum, the `index.html` associated with each WDL file will have a table of contents with links to each struct, task, or workflow documentation page in that directory. If the WDL file has a "preamble" (a comment block before the version statement where each line starts with `##`), that will be rendered as Markdown text above the table of contents.

Example preamble:

```wdl
## # This is a header
##
## This is a paragraph with **bolding**, _italics_, and `code` formatting

version 1.2

workflow foo {}
```

## v1.0 and v1.1 structs

> The WDL specification does not offer a way to document structs prior to WDL v1.2, so the pages for them are rather limited. The pages for these structs will have a copy of the raw WDL definition.

Reviewer 2: Is the hesitance to avoid biasing people one way or another, or to avoid appearing to endorse any solution that's not "upgrade to 1.2"?

There's already somewhat of an implication with "The pages for these structs will have a copy of the raw WDL definition" that comments will be included, and while it doesn't rise to an endorsement it does make a reader ask "why was this included?"

## v1.2 structs

Structs defined in v1.2 WDL _will_ eventually get rich HTML documentation similar to tasks and workflows. However this has not yet been implemented, so they are given the same treatment as pre-v1.2 structs.

## Parameters (inputs and outputs)

Each input and output to a workflow or task should be documented, but there is some flexibility in the specifics.

### Inputs

> Each entry in the `input` section of a task or workflow is expected to have a corresponding entry in the `parameter_meta` section. To get the most out of `sprocket doc`, it's recommended that each input entry be an object. That object should have at least a `description` key. There is special handling for the following sub-keys:

Author: Great question! This is definitely a detail I took for granted, but is not clear at all 😅 

I am _not_ talking about the `Object` WDL type you linked, but rather a "meta object". The WDL meta sections (both `meta` and `parameter_meta`) are made up of key-value pairs, where the value can be a variety of types, including a nested "object" with more key-values underneath it.

So the recommendation here can be illustrated with this WDL snippet:
```wdl
task task1 {
    input {
        Int foo
        Int bar
    }

    parameter_meta {
        foo: "the `foo` key does _not_ have a meta object value, but has a `String` value instead"
        bar: {
            description: "the `bar` key has a meta object value",
            help: "with the keys `description` and `help` which each have `String` values",
            arbitrary_nesting: {
                something: "this can get messy with arbitrary nesting",
                other_field: [1, 2, 42, 64],
            }
        }
    }
}
```

- `group`: all inputs sharing the same `String` value will be rendered together in a dedicated table
    - required inputs are _always_ rendered under the "Required Inputs" table and thus should _not_ have a `group` key (it will be ignored if present)
    - The `Common` group of inputs will always come after the required inputs
    - Inputs without a `group` will be rendered under "Other Inputs" which will be the last input table
    - The `Resource` group of inputs will immediately precede the "Other Inputs" table
    - All other groups will render alphabetically between the `Common` table and the `Resource` table.

> - `help`: will render at the top of the "Additional Meta" cell of the table

Author: True 🤔 however with things still in a prototype phase not sure how to accomplish an example at this point in time.

Once we have the `workflows` docs rendering at a public site, we can link there with references to the raw WDL which generated them.

> - `help`: will render at the top of the "Additional Meta" cell of the table

Author: There's not much harm in hooking up the prototype docs, and if you want to write the github action(s) needed to get that rolling, I think you should go for it!

The biggest obstacle at the moment is that we're re-implementing all the tables (which is the bulk of the content). But I think the CL API is relatively stable, I don't have plans to radically change anything in the build system (which should be irrelevant for users (e.g. the workflows repo), but that would be the most likely source of friction).

> - `help`: will render at the top of the "Additional Meta" cell of the table

Reviewer 3: I think we still have a CD action that uses `wdldoc`. I think we could 1. release the command under `dev`, 2. build and deploy `workflows` docs, and 3. send the announcement to the beta group. If we do that, I think it'd be relatively safe to go ahead and embed links to where the `workflows` docs will be in this PR.

If an input has a `String` value for its parameter meta entry instead of a meta object, that string value will be treated as if it were the `description` key of a meta object.

### Outputs

> Outputs should be documented in one of two places: either in the task/workflow `meta` section under an `outputs` key or at the root of the `parameter_meta` section.

Reviewer 2: A how-to vs. reference moment: if the former, we should recommend one or the other; if the latter, we should describe differences between the two choices and what happens if both are present.

Similar to inputs, each output should either be documented with an object which has a `description` key with a `String` value, or a `String` value directly. 

## Meta entries with special handling

All meta entries will render in the final HTML documentation, but there are some special cases we introduce.

Every struct, task, and workflow `meta` section should have a `description` key with a `String` value. This description string can have Markdown formatting. The `description` string should be less than 140 characters or it will be clipped in some contexts.

The `help` key should only have a `String` value, but can be of any length. It's best practice to keep `description` short, and put any additional text needed under the `help` key. Help strings can also be styled with Markdown!

The `external_help` key should have a URL as its value, and will be rendered as a button which will open a new tab or window visiting the link.

If a `warning` key has a `String` value, it will be rendered in a special "warning box" to draw the attention of users.

> Workflows can have a `category` key which will group workflow pages on the left sidebar.

Reviewer 2: This definitely feels more like reference content than best-practices, and might work well as a table, e.g.,

| Key | Allowed contexts | Type | Description |
| --- | --------------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `help` | Structs, tasks, workflows | `String` | Short description (< 140 characters) that can include Markdown |

A best-practices presentation should consist primarily of an example with a link to the details for those interested.

Reviewer 2: Oh, I think this part, whether as a table or a definition list, is great as a reference. Once there's enough fleshed out for separate reference and best practice docs, that's when the crosslinking would be beneficial.

# How to make the most of Sprocket doc

Sprocket is capable of rendering rich HTML documentation for any WDL workspace! However to make the most of this tool, there are certain documentation conventions which should be followed. This page describes practices that are optional, but that enhance the quality of the resulting documentation.

If you find any awkward rendering or unexpected behavior, refer to this document and see if a convention better addresses your specific use case.

## Homepage

> We encourage you to customize the experience of your user documentation by writing a custom Markdown document that will be embedded at the root of your generated documentation. Every page contains links back to the homepage. If no homepage is provided, your users will be faced with an empty screen stating "There's nothing to see on this page".

Reviewer 3: Ah, yeah, I found that flag after commenting. Maybe: 

```suggestion
We encourage you to customize the experience of your user documentation by writing a custom Markdown document which can be embedded at the root of your generated documentation by specifying it on the command line when generating the documentation. Every page contains links back to the homepage. If no homepage is provided, your users will be faced with an empty screen stating "There's nothing to see on this page".
```

```wdl
## # This is a header
##
## This is a paragraph with **bolding**, _italics_, and `code` formatting.

version 1.2

workflow foo {}
```

## v1.0 and v1.1 structs

The WDL specification does not offer a way to document structs prior to WDL v1.2, so the pages for them are rather limited. The pages for these structs will have a copy of the raw WDL definition.

## v1.2 structs

Structs defined in v1.2 WDL _will_ eventually get rich HTML documentation similar to tasks and workflows. However this has not yet been implemented, so they are given the same treatment as pre-v1.2 structs.

## Meta entries with special handling

All meta entries will render in the final HTML documentation, but there are some special cases we introduce. Each of the below keys are expected to have a WDL `String` value.

`description`
: Every struct, task, and workflow `meta` section should have a `description` key. This description string can have Markdown formatting. The `description` string should be less than 140 characters or it will be clipped in some contexts.

`help`

> : This text can be of any length. It's best practice to keep `description` short, and put any additional text needed under the `help` key. Help strings can also be styled with Markdown.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
: This text can be of any length. It is best practice to keep `description` short and put any additional text needed under the `help` key. Help strings can also be styled with Markdown.
```

`category`
: Workflows can have a `category` key which will group workflow pages on the left sidebar.

`external_help`
: This key should have a URL as its value (i.e. a valid hyperlink represented as a WDL `String`), and will be rendered as a button which will open a new tab or window visiting the link.

`warning`
: This text will be rendered in a special "warning box" to draw the attention of users.

## Parameters (inputs and outputs)

> Each input and output to a workflow or task should be documented, but there is some flexibility in the specifics. To get the most out of `sprocket doc`, it's recommended that each instance of parameter documentation be a meta object. That object should have at least a `description` key. If a parameter has a `String` value for its meta entry instead of a meta object, that string value will be treated as if it were the `description` key of a meta object with no other entries.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each input and output to a workflow or task should be documented, but there is some flexibility in the specifics. To get the most out of `sprocket doc`, it is recommended that each instance of parameter documentation be a meta object. That object should have at least a `description` key. If a parameter has a `String` value for its meta entry instead of a meta object, that string value will be treated as if it were the `description` key of a meta object with no other entries.
```

Reviewer 3: Does this need an example? Or is "meta object" clear enough?

Reviewer 3: My edit above is personal preference. I try to avoid contractions in formal writing, such as documentation.
